# Why Johnny Can’t Encrypt: A Usability Evaluation of PGP 5.0
### Alma Whitten (Carnegie Mellon University), et al.
### 8th Usenix Security Symposium, Washington DC (August 1999) ([Link](https://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/viewdoc/download?doi=10.1.1.40.9279&rep=rep1&type=pdf))

---

1. What are the paper's contributions and what did you like about the paper?  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - The paper aims to study the usability aspects of a purportedly commonly used security tool, PGP. In doing so, they examine the usability aspects of common security tools and look at ways that these methods can fail or not make enough sense for a regular computer user.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - To do so, they employ mixed methods, combining a general software UI walkthrough with a monitored human guided test. I liked the mixed methods approach, since it helps free the bias from the authors, as well as helps understand how a non-savvy user navigates a system, especially pertinent in a UX research setting.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - I also liked the test monitor setup for the user test, which would do multiple functions based on user needs.  

2. What are questionable parts of the paper and its major limitations? (E.g., methodology issues, detail omissions, presentation problems)  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - I felt that the user test strategy was too limited - with just 12 participants involved. Although the participant pool itself was diverse, the small sample size makes the study too small to be significant.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - Another questionable assumption the study makes is that people _need_ to use PGP for email security, or people want to send secure emails at all. Considering that fact that the user study contained people from various walks of life, it might be fair to say that most of them might not require sending secret information over email, and hence, might have never looked into the PGP system before. However, it is also fair to say that this study tries to capture the way a newbie would interact with the system, hence looking at the pitfalls from such a perspective might be relevant to the study.  

3. What was unclear about the work, or what questions do you have?  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - Nowadays, email encryption is already handled by the email providers themselves, adding more layers of abstraction to this concept. It would be interesting to look at this study being replicated 25 years later, where secure email is very common, especially in a corporate setting, and how usability has improved with time.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - Recently, I faced a similar situation where I required to communicate with an entity securely, and the platform being used gave me three options - either it would generate a key for me, I could use a key of mine, or I could let the platform handle security for me. I learnt the lesson that different "users" would need a different GPG key, certain platforms won't allow keys with multiple user email IDs, etc. Although the platform tried to simplify the options for me, I was still removed from all the details regarding the use of keys, showing that this is indeed a hard problem to solve even after so many years.  

4. What are other methods (beyond those used in the paper) for investigating the usability of PGP? What different sorts of insights/information might your proposed methods provide?  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - One simple way study user experience in software is by doing "contextual inquiry", where researchers obtain information about the user experience from real users, and optionally also observe users working in their own environments. This is a useful way to interact with your users, understand their workflows, understand their proficiency, understand their pain points and optionally, compare your methods against those of a competitor or a product with a similar role, helping you to find gaps and areas of improvement.  

5. Think of another security or privacy scenario where usability might play a big role (beyond warnings and passwords). Discuss what the scenario is and how usability factors in.  
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; - One area that works at the intersection of usability and privacy/security is sensible defaults. Let's look at this from an IT systems administrator's perspective. Modern computer and network systems expose tremendous amounts of knobs to let administrators fine tune the systems according to their requirements. But, a systems administrator is only as good as their experience. Hence, it becomes important that they are not overwhelmed with information and controls, and have sensible defaults with good help text to explain the controls and the impact of different choices. A small hover-over information box can give small bytes of information with a longer linked knowledge base/documentation article for more details. At the same time, the security should be ensured by design, so that even if the administrator does not change any controls, a baseline, industry-wide acceptable level of security can be maintained. Other usability aspects in this case can include appropriate grouping and pagination of controls, and even a small sandbox in transactional mode to look at impacts of different choices.  