# Understanding the Mirai Botnet
### Zane Ma (University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign), Manos Antonakakis (Georgia Tech), et al.
### Proceedings of the 26th USENIX Security Symposium (August 2017) ([Link](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/conference/usenixsecurity17/sec17-antonakakis.pdf))

---

1. What are the paper's contributions and what did you like about the paper?  
The paper aims to study the Mirai botnet, an expansive IoT-based botnet which was used in large-scale DDoS attacks in 2016. It uses a multitude of measurement methodologies to capture as much information about the botnet as possible - including span, device types, possible infection chain, C2 activity and the actions themselves. What I liked was that, given the timeline of the paper and the botnet, the researchers worked quickly across many different verticals to capture a lot of data and string together a good story, that helped traced the botnet right back to its origins, down to how it evolved over time and carried out its attacks.

2. What are questionable parts of the paper and its major limitations? (E.g., methodology issues, detail omissions, presentation problems)  
One thing I felt about the paper was that although it mentioned that Mirai is a potentially game-changer in the botnet space, it does not talk much about how this might be an evolving space in the future in the paper. Secondly, although the authors mention multiple times about the geolocation of the bots being concentrated in South America and SE Asia, they do not provide strong hints about why Mirai failed to capture bots in countries like the USA where IoT devices have a high concetration too. Lastly, another area that the authors could've touched upon was diversification in terms of the geographical distribution of the bots with respect to the type of device - if certain type of device was more prevalent among bots in certain country - especially to distinguish between consumer devices like cameras and DVRs vs routers.

3. What was unclear about the work, or what questions do you have?  
The first thing that was not clear to me was how the authors decided to choose the protocols to scan, especially ones like CWMP. Another question that I have is that considering that IoT devices are usually on household networks and with IPv4 being scanned alone, did the authors do anything to mitigate at the impact of NAT and similar routing methods on their measurements?

4. Mirai largely targeted vulnerable IoT devices. Discuss some differences between IoT devices and PCs/servers that might impact how they are secured or how attackers might leverage them.  
The biggest difference between servers and IoT devices is the resource-vs-security-vs-usability tradeoff that has to be done in an IoT setting. With low resources and a wide layperson user base, IoT device manufacturers opt for a more lenient security posture, opting for usability over security. With the barrier to entry being low, a lot of times, these devices are not secure by design itself - either owing to lack of expert engineers or simply a lack of prioritization by the manufacturers. This leads to attack surfaces like extra permissible network configurations, poor default credentials, poorly designed networking stacks and interfacing software, lack of updates, etc. This is not the norm in the PC/server space which faces much more scrutiny by virtue of handling more crucial user data as well as strong industry standards as well as legislation.

5. The abstract argues that Mirai may represent a “sea change in the evolutionary development of botnets”. Do you agree? Why or why not?  
I agree with the argument that Mirai is a big advancement for botnet actors. IoT devices are project to grow into billions in coming years, and with the aforementioned problems and lack of interest in dealing with them, companies frequently tradeoff security for usability. And when a malicious actor can get access to billions of machines so quickly and easily, it lowers the barrier for effort needed to build botnets, while also making it difficult to stop them. Mirai used a simple dictionary enumeration takeover, but future malware can use more sophisticated ways to spread and evade detection. Just the huge numbers alone can overwhelm mitigation measures, and open avenues like easier DDoS or a distributed malware CDN or even a distributed C2 itself.